Something every teacher knows is no matter how much you prepare, and we just
saw this, things will go wrong. And I had an anecdote, but we'll skip that. You saw
it, right? Things will go wrong. So that means I'm always on a quest to just try
to simplify, simplify, simplify. How can I think make things simpler, cleaner, more
streamlined? I mean things will still go wrong, but every like element of
complexity is just an additional point where something goes wrong. And so let's
think about that in a context of an R-based data science class, which is
essentially what I'm teaching. Data visualization, the students learn how to
think about visualization, but also how to make visualizations, and we use R
throughout. So there's various components that you need, right? You need slides, and
it's slides with code and output because I'm teaching code. So PowerPoint is maybe
not the best option there, right? Even though otherwise it might be a great
option. You need a website, probably. Somehow the students need to find all
the materials. You need interactive exercises, at least that really enhances
your class. You need student assignments. The students somehow need to be
given something that they have to do, and maybe also you have like little shiny
apps or so that just demonstrate some concept of your class, right? You may
want that also. And we can do all of that in the R ecosystem, and like
traditionally we had different packages like Scharingen for slides, and
LearnR for interactive exercises, and so on. It all works fine, but honestly it's
a hodgepodge of different technologies, and many of them can pose various
challenges. And I've used them all, and I've run into challenges with all of
them. Just one example of the types of challenges we may encounter. So we can
use LearnR for interactive exercises. It works great, except the problem is it
requires a running web server, because it's a shiny under the hood. Sorry, I'm
not sure if it's shiny, but under the hood it needs, actually it needs R, right?
Because it executes the code, and so under the hood it needs a web server
that can create substantial overhead and cost if you just want to run this
for your class. You may need IT support at the university, or you buy a
commercial service which is expensive. It just doesn't work very well. Then you
have the alternative. Students can run LearnR documents locally, and that works.
That's actually what I've used most of the time, but that's really confusing and
ugly. You tell the students, oh, download this thing, and then start RStudio, and
then you run this, and then up comes another website somewhere that you don't
understand where it comes from, but there is where you do the exercises, right?
Great failure point, like something will go wrong there. And so I was thinking
about like last, about this time last year, the last PositConf, I don't know
exactly when it was, I was thinking about planning for my spring class. I always
teach in the spring, and all the issues that I had, and so I was thinking how can
we streamline and simplify all of this, and it all fell into place for me at the
last PositConf, and in particular this particular presentation, which was the
first one of the conference. You can watch it there on YouTube, and George
Stack was introducing WebR and QuartoLive, and that is really amazing,
and I'll show you that in a second. So you can now do these live exercises
actually in a static web page, which means all this overhead is removed. And
then Charlotte Wickham introduced types, that's like another one of my pain points,
like the student assignments, I want them to do PDFs, and it's always a headache.
Like either they use LaTeX, and the result is kind of ugly, if we're honest,
but also then they need to install LaTeX, something will go wrong, or the
alternative is you tell them, well make an HTML, and then open it in Chrome, and
export as a PDF. That was always, you laugh, that was always my recommended
solution, because it actually looks better, but it's even more like, and then
somebody manages to somehow create a screenshot of the HTML, and stick that
into a PDF. I don't know, every year somebody did that. Yeah, I don't know how
they do this, but it was always the case. Okay, so we now have types, and so that
means all what we now can do, we have all these components, and we can just replace
them all with Quarto, and so that means we have a single unified framework, both
for the instructor, and actually also for the students, right? So I'm using Quarto
and Reveal.js for my slides, I'm using Quarto websites for the websites, using
Quarto Live for the interactive exercises, the assignments are also Quarto
documents, that with types are converted into PDFs, and then if I have any apps, I
use Shiny Live to just run also my Shiny apps as static websites, and so that
makes, takes away a lot of my pain points, and at the same time, literally
everything the students learn connects to how I'm doing things. If they want to
know, well, how did you do the slides? Well, here's the GitHub, here are the sources
for my slides, you can look exactly what I did, right? And even though that is, like,
for many students, that is, like, we're not going that into the weeds, some
students will want to go into the weeds, right? And they can, and they can go as
far as they want, or even just telling them, look, everything you're learning
here today, which is just basic ggplot in a Quarto document, there's a direct
line from that to everything I'm using in my class, and if at some point in the
future you want to do similar things, you can. Okay, so this is my class website,
where all my class materials are, and you see the little GitHub button, it is
all on GitHub, but what I've done for today, for this presentation, and for you,
is I've actually created a little, sort of, stub website that has all the
elements, but really pared down, so the QR code should send you to that website,
you can try that, and it's essentially a copy of my class website, but again, I
have only one example of each thing. So first, we actually have the talk here,
this is the talk on the website, as you can see, and if you keep going, then comes
again, slides all the way down, took me a long time to get that. Then I have an
example worksheet, I'm not pulling the live worksheet up, you can do that on
your computer, I just also have a little video, so this is what the worksheets
look like, they're just Quarto documents, but then you have R code in there,
there's a little exercise, and you can have hints and solutions, right, and then
I'm just copying now the solution, and pasting it in just to show, then you run
code, and you get the output, but of course it's live R, so you can run any
code you want, right, and on here at the bottom, I have a little bit of
information about how to set this up. Then I have a Shiny app, and the Shiny
app doesn't really do anything, it's just a demonstration of how you can easily
integrate a Shiny app into your site, so this is what happens when you click on
that, there's like a little icon for a second, and then the app is literally
the demo app from Shiny that just allows you to to click through various
data sets in R, so the app doesn't do anything, I was just trying to keep it
simple, right, everything is on GitHub, so you can go, you can figure out how I did
this, I just want to, I have plenty of time, I just want to go over some things
that I've learned, and some of them may be a bit technical, but I thought, you
know, I have some technical tidbits here and there for those of you who may have
struggled with similar things, like this, I really struggled a lot with this, even
though it's kind of obvious, live HTML pages need separate theming, so in your,
if you have used Quarto, you know there's a quarto.yaml file where you set up all
your settings of like what theme do you want, and so on, and if you use regular
HTML documents, and you use live HTML, so those are the worksheets with the live
exercises, you actually need to write all your theme information twice, here I set
the theme for HTML, and then I separately set the theme for live HTML, and if you
don't do that, they will crosstalk and create weird things, and that took me
like three days to figure that out, you know, I was changing my theme code, and
it just never looked right, and like sometimes it would take, and sometimes it
wouldn't take, and I was extremely confused until I realized, oh, the live
HTML was sort of interfering with the theme, so that is like a really subtle
thing that you can run into, and it can really cause you a lot of headache for no
good reason, once you've done it like that, it's fine, it works great.
The other is, if you're using reveal.js to make slides, you're basically becoming
a web developer, like I wrote a lot of custom CSS code, like the developer tools
in Chrome are your best friend, right, like this is, I mean, I've learned a lot
of web development over the years just from making slides, and I spent three
hours yesterday trying to get those videos to start synchronized when I go
to the slide, and it turns out that's not possible, not with my intelligence in
three hours possible, for the simple, so video tags have auto play, right, the
problem is the video starts playing when you load the slides, because this is just
one big page, so I wanted the video not to start when I start talking, but when I
go to the slide, right, I tried JavaScript that somehow tries to detect when the
video shows up, and it would start the video three slides before the video came,
I don't know, yeah, that's the kind of stuff that eventually you run into, but
the one positive thing is that deploying shiny apps using this shiny life is super
easy, if you have an app that lives in a folder so you can run it in this
traditional way using the shiny app function, then deploying it as a static
website is literally as complicated, like this takes no work at all, like there's
no reason whatsoever not to write all sorts of shiny apps and just deploy them
as static websites, and if you are, if like that doesn't make any sense to you,
like why am I harping on this so much, shiny as a static website means you just
have a file, you stick it anywhere on GitHub pages or whatever, and it's there,
you don't think about it anymore, you don't have to think about who is paying
for the compute cost, is the user that is running it locally on their machine,
it's extremely easy, right, versus running shiny actually as a web server is
like a real deployment headache that as a teacher you probably don't want to get
into, so this has really been a huge improvement for my personal workflow.
Okay, however, it's not all roses, I've already said a couple of things,
like, yeah, you write web pages if you're making slides with real JS.
I would say the biggest overall issue that I've had with Quarto is because it
does so many things when you try to Google how to do something,
you often get the documentation for the wrong thing.
I want to style something in the slides, but
I get the documentation about how to do it in a regular Quarto document, right?
And then it's mostly the same, but there's subtle differences sometimes,
so that's probably, I would say, and
it's just inherent in the fact that it's one tool that does all of those things.
And of course, the other thing is the moment you change your methods,
your workflow, there's learning curves and
some things that you've always relied on just don't quite work the same way.
So there's this transition cost.
For me personally, it was absolutely worth it,
even though going from Sharingan to Reveal was a lot of work.
Every slide set probably cost me two or three hours to redo.
Once you've done that work, it's great, but
there's these subtle differences that take a lot of time and effort.
Okay, is this approach right for you?
I think it's really many levels that you can be on.
If you have never used Quarto at all, I would encourage you just try it.
If you're familiar with R Markdown, going to Quarto is really,
there's no learning curve at all, right?
If you've never made a website, just try setting up a Quarto website.
Also extremely simple.
If you have used Quarto, but you've never used the live exercises or
the live apps, I would also encourage you to try that.
And if you need to generate PDFs, look into Types,
because it really is going to make your life easier for PDF generation.
Okay, and that's it, that's the QR code once more to the website.
So if you get a chance, put questions in and upvote as you like.
First question, when using Quarto Live for interactive exercises,
how do you monitor slash evaluate the student's work?
How would this integrate with LMS platforms?
Okay, so I don't.
So, no, no, no, this is actually very deliberate.
So I see the interactive exercises as a self-study thing, right?
Sometimes what I do is actually in my lecture,
I have time where I tell the students to do work.
And so then I say, okay, pull up this exercise and do it.
And then I may walk around this.
By the way, if you're not doing this, I really encourage you,
have some time in the class where the students are doing something.
And walk around and talk to them.
It really builds a connection between you and
the students that you don't have if you're just, even, this is a small room.
I teach in a way bigger room, right?
Students at the beginning are always shocked that they sit in the very back and
I walk there and say, hello, how are you doing, right?
The other thing is, every time I walk up to a student and I say,
do you have a question, they go, no, yeah.
But if I just ask, does anybody have a question, nobody asks a question, right?
So having them do something and then walk up to them, great.
But I don't use the interactive exercises as assignments.
The assignments are separate.
I just give them a Quarto template, and then they have to fill it out,
turn it into a PDF, and then that is the assignment that gets graded.
Do they do that through GitHub or something, or
is it just more like some other method to send the assignments to you?
So at UT Austin, we use Canvas.
And so they just upload the PDF, and then actually it's very easy, and
this is why it has to be PDF.
As the grader, you can then go in and annotate the PDF.
You can directly say, look here, in this particular,
this line of code is wrong, or this sentence doesn't make sense, or so.
So that is nicely integrated, but it's manual.
Or we also do a lot of peer grading, then the students grade each other.
I think we have time for one more.
Let's see, how are your students feeling about Quarto workflow?
What's their feedback that you get from them?
I don't know that they, they don't know the difference, right?
I mean, I tell them, well, do this thing.
Here's a Quarto document, press the button, and it makes a PDF.
And they're like, okay.
I would say the previous iteration, they got confused at many steps.
Creating PDFs was extremely confusing.
Doing these interactive exercises by running a shiny server locally was
extremely confusing.
So I think lots of things have just streamlined for the students with this.
Excellent, thanks.
Let's thank Klaus again.
Okay.
We will be back.
Thank you and we will be right back.
Thank you.
Thank you so much.
You are welcome.
Thank you very much.
My pleasure.
Thank you.